tonight the major leap for that
potential breakthrough drug the FDA
giving emergency approval for Renda
severe to treat coronavirus it's been
shown to speed recovery but the
questions tonight
can it boost the chances of survival and
does it have any harmful side effects
also more than half of America now
loosening restrictions as frustration
mounts over stay at home orders in
California the battle over the beaches
across the country dozens of malls are
now open but will families feel safe
shopping breaking news on King Jeong on
the North Korean leader reportedly
making his first public appearance in 20
days where has he been Joe Biden
breaking his silence on the sexual
assault allegation from a former staffer
I'm saying unequivocally it never never
happened how will his accuser respond
and NBC News exclusive Richard Angoor it
inside the ICU at a hard-hit Hospital at
extraordinary view with doctors and
nurses on the front lines this is NBC
Nightly News with Lester Holt good
evening everyone late today the FDA
granted emergency use approval for an
experimental drug that lifted hopes
across the country earlier this week on
News the drug shorten recovery times for
the severely ill with coronavirus but
despite success stories some key
questions about REM des aveer are still
unanswered and some health experts are
prescribing a reality check it's where
our reporting begins tonight here's
Stephanie Gosk
tonight the most promising treatment so
far for kovat 19 getting a green light
the fda issuing an emergency use order
for REM des aveer we're going to be
having some really incredible results
there are patients out there that can
benefit from this medicine today that
are hospitalized and we don't want any
time to waste for that according to the
CEO Gilead ramped up production from
five thousand courses to one hundred
thousand and will have produced millions
by year's end the push energized by
Kovac patients like Brian Edwards he was
at death's door he was not breathing at
all
he he couldn't move Tammy Edwards a
nurse recovering from kovat herself
could only FaceTime with her husband at
his worst then he started taking REM des
Vere has really seemed to be the key to
him coming around the early results of
the NIH controlled trial showed that
patients who took REM des beer improved
31% faster than those taking a placebo
but the full study has not been
published and today's emergency use
order is not the same as official
approval from the FDA doctor do we run
the risk in a climate that we're in
right now with so many people clamoring
for something pushing a drug out into
the public before it's ready to be used
we do take that risk and I do think we
have to avoid this problem of irrational
exuberance take a deep breath dr.
Stephen Nissen designs and carries out
trials at Cleveland Clinic he says there
are two big outstanding questions about
REM des aveer does it improve a
patient's chance of surviving kovat 19
and also does taking room des aver do
any harm you have to study enough people
for long enough in a rigorous way to
actually have a full understanding of
the effects of the drug Edward says she
understands the concerns but in Brian's
case they were running out of time it's
better to just do it and see and because
otherwise there's no hope the urgent
need to do something is there today the
FDA gave doctors a new weapon Stephanie
Gosk NBC News New York and now to the
growing divide of a reopening more
States back in business today even
dozens of shopping malls reopening and
the growing question how soon will most
people feel comfortable going there
here's Miguel Almaguer tonight Iowa Utah
Wyoming and Maine becoming the latest
states to ease at home orders while
implementing new restrictions hoping to
get the economy back on track in Wyoming
barbershops and hair salons can open
their doors by Monday nearly 30 states
home to roughly a hundred and fifty
million people will start getting back
to
business in a new normal in Arkansas at
fitness centers members must have their
temperatures checked at the door wear
masks when exercising and stay 12 feet
away from one another in Texas
restaurant owners are hungry for
business I anticipate this being pretty
intense over the next couple of weeks as
we try to navigate this and keep
everybody safe this week nearly 2,000
Americans died every day from
complications of the virus including
Paul Carey a Colorado paramedic who was
infected while volunteering in New York
City while cases climb in hotspots like
New York protests to end stay at home
orders are erupting in Michigan where
armed demonstrators stormed the Capitol
restaurants bars theaters and casinos
will be closed until at least May 28th
in North Carolina gym owner Jason Morgan
defying orders to stay closed just wiped
out any savings that I've had it's put
me in dire straits of losing the
business that I've spent over half of my
life building in California where stay
at home orders are entering week 7
there's a fight over piers and beaches
while many of the state's most iconic
shorelines remain closed after large
crowds flooded Orange County the
governor ordered those beaches
off-limits but today as protesters line
the beaches two cities are challenging
the governor's directive in court our
identity is very much tied up in our
beaches our residents enjoy our beaches
I think it's an overreach
constitutionally tonight a national
debate bigger than businesses and
beaches as Americans enter uncharted
water Miguel Almaguer NBC News Los
Angeles I'm Blaine Alexander with a
major turning point for retail dozens of
malls opening their doors to customers
how much feels freeing to me shoppers in
Texas
donning masks children's rides roped off
on escalators people spread apart and
crews cleaning those high-touch areas I
think we're all in seeing anxious to get
out in Oklahoma City people waiting
outside for stores to open and
vil South Carolina a steady stream of
shoppers Simon Property Group the
biggest mall owner in America is opening
49 outlets and malls across ten states
by Monday offering hand sanitizer face
masks and temperature checks closing off
communal spaces like water fountains and
play areas and removing seating in food
courts where they will no longer provide
reusable trays or utensils did you get
any sort of instructions when you went
inside yeah yeah they had arrows on the
floor for you to follow and you have a
mass to go into Skechers the hope a
financial boost to hard-hit stores as
Americans change how they are spending
money grocery sales are skyrocketing
while retail is struggling and even with
some malls open the stores inside them
are not all following suit to stay
closed for a longer period of time at
this outlet mall in North Georgia which
reopened today of the more than 100
stores only a handful were in business
the rest still locked while many big
retail chains have not yet announced
plans about reopening Macy says all of
its 775 locations will be up and running
within the next eight weeks but tonight
many of America's malls still look like
this here at Lenox Square one of the
biggest malls in metro Atlanta the
parking lot is empty but retailers hope
that that will all change once this mall
reopens on Monday and some employees say
it's all happening too fast we no longer
have the choice to stay home it is scary
just because people are risking their
health just to open store that don't
really need to be open right now
balancing the health of America and its
economy Blane Alexander NBC News Atlanta
there is breaking news on kim-jong on
what could be his first appearance in
weeks as speculation swirls about his
health Kristen Welker at the White House
now Kristen what do we know
Lester good evening this appears to be
major news what could be the end of the
mystery over the whereabouts of Kim
jong-un all of this is coming from North
Korea's state media North Korea is
announcing that Kim made a public
appearance at a fertilizer plant he has
not been seen in 20 days and missed two
key celebrations
speculation he was having major health
issues tonight President Trump who's met
with him three times was asked if he's
alive the president responded I don't
want to talk about it
we'll have something to say about it at
the appropriate time Lester all right
kristen welker thank you tonight former
Vice President Joe Biden is denying an
allegation of sexual assault by a former
Senate staffer who says it happened 27
years ago Biden speaking out for the
first time on this and we should warn
you some of the details as alleged are
graphic here's Andrea Mitchell mr. vice
president joe biden emphatically denying
the sexual assault allegation in an
interview with Mika Brzezinski on MSNBC
would you please go on the record with
the American people did you sexually
assault Tara Reid no it is not true
I'm saying unequivocally it never never
happened it didn't never happened
former Senate staffer Tara Reid and
other women had said a year ago Biden
made them uncomfortable with unwanted
but non-sexual touching but this March
read for the first time publicly accused
Biden of holding her against a wall in a
Senate corridor and penetrating her with
his fingers 27 years ago when he was a
senator and she briefly worked on his
staff do you remember her do you
remember any any types of complaints
that she might have made I don't
remember any type of complaint she may
have made it was 27 years ago and I
don't remember nor does anyone else that
I'm aware of
we told NBC News she told several people
at the time about the alleged incident
one told NBC News Reid did describe a
sexual assault but she would not let us
use her name a neighbor Reid says she
told several years later did confirm
that in a text to NBC
Reid also says she filed a complaint
with the Senate 27 years ago alleging
sexual harassment but not sexual assault
no record has been found Biden today
writing the Secretary of the Senate to
search for a complaint Biden is
resisting calls to open his Senate
records at the University of Delaware
currently sealed until he leaves public
life look a record like this can only be
one place
it would not be the University of
Delaware Biden also rejecting criticism
that his denial of Reid's accusation
contradicts his past statements that
women claiming sexual assault like
Christine Blasi Ford should be believed
I'll always uphold that principle but in
the end in every case the truth is what
matters and in this case the truth is
the claims are false I'm not going to go
in and question her motive I'm not going
to attack her she has a right to say
whatever she wants to say but I have a
right to say look at the facts check it
out
the Trump campaign accusing Biden of a
double standard but the president who
has been credibly accused of sexual
misconduct multiple times
although denying it also voicing some
sympathy for his opponent on a podcast
all of a sudden you become a wealthy guy
you're a famous guy then you become
president and people just people that
you've never seen that you've never
heard of make charges so you know I
guess in a way you could say I'm I'm
sticking up for him but I would just say
to Joe Biden just go out and fight it
tonight NBC News talked to William
Jeffers who led the team vetting Biden
to be Barack Obama's running mate
he says his group of lawyers found no
misconduct sexual or otherwise NBC News
has reached out to Tara Reid for her
response she is not responded Wester
Andrea Mitchell tonight Thank You Andrea
in 60 seconds Richard Angle with an
extraordinary look on the kovat 19 front
lines inside the ICU back now with that
extraordinary look on the front lines
our Richard Engel with doctors and
nurses inside an ICU fighting to save
lives it's the first time we've been
given access inside an ER in the UK
University Hospital in Coventry north of
London one of the hardest hit areas and
kovat 19 is changing how they operate
the admitting nurse has to make an
on-the-spot call is the patient kovat
positive or not these people are gonna
come in now 7:00 and you're just gonna
say okay you're going for more kovat
testing and you're not
basically yes it's it's a tough call
they have tests here but results take
ten hours at a minimum patience in an
area and they might support codes
because they didn't have it previously
administrators divided this hospital
into zones one for kovat positive or
suspected positive cases the other for
likely kovat negative and we see how
much PPE the hospital burns through each
move into a co vedera requires putting
on protective gear and then disposing of
it there in the room and then doing it
all over again when they go back into
covert areas the sign is indicating that
behind this plastic barrier there are
confirmed Kovac cases so when you enter
and go into the next ward we're entering
into a coded area so let's move forward
it means we have to wear a mask from
here going forward following Hospital
guidelines we met dr. Tom billiard in a
clean zone as he suited up to enter the
critical care unit we asked him to take
a camera inside nationwide half of Kovac
patients who need this level of care
don't survive but even with all the
checks and all the divisions this virus
and still spread Nicola wesson is a
surgical nurse she started to have a
fever and cough a few days ago today she
came in for a test she'll get the
results in 48 hours
nickolas husband is an electrician laid
off now taking care of their two kids as
she isolates in a room at home British
officials say the UK past the peak of
its outbreak days ago but it's still
stretching the capacity of even the best
hospitals which are now hospitals within
hospitals Richard Engel NBC News an
amazing look from inside that fight it
is the 1st of the month again bills are
due and pressure growing on so many out
of work tonight Kate snow takes a look
at the heavy toll after a divorce
Suzanne Stiglitz went on medication for
depression she found two part-time jobs
but coronavirus have eliminated both I
am very proud of you
she's job hunting now but her 11 and 13
year olds need her I mean every other
weekend because you don't have childcare
yeah some day she leaves her one-bedroom
apartment to go to her car to cry in
private you don't want your kids to
experience you have to hide the long
odds of finding a new job only adds to
the mental toll says psychiatrist dr.
Jessica Clements experiencing symptoms
for much longer while they play the
waiting game
I've had several breakdowns from all
this Nick Clark used to manage a
restaurant in st. Paul Minnesota the
thing for me is losing that sense of
purpose and not only did I enjoy it but
took a lot of pride in my job and now
every day just feels a little more
uncertain than the day before as hard as
it is dr. Clemens encourages people
struggling to keep a routine including
exercise keep in close contact with
loved ones don't be hard on yourself and
think of anxiety
as a tool you talk about reframing
things not necessarily seeing the
anxiety as debilitating that's something
that could help you initial feeling of
anxiety can be very useful I would
encourage a person to use that anxiety
to help come up with a plan talk it over
with your loved one your spouse or
significant other about what the next
steps would be next steps millions of
Americans are looking to take Kate snow
NBC News all right up next for us as we
continue tonight catching priced gougers
and what becomes of the evidence
supplies that hospitals desperately need
the shortage of protective equipment has
sent hospitals scrambling and some
suppliers cashing in during this crisis
and law enforcement is finding a special
challenge what to do with all the
evidence here's Pete Williams in New
York City police and federal agents
arrest three men accused of selling 1000
medical masks for ten times the normal
price in another case less than a block
from one of New York's biggest hospitals
agents from Homeland Security
Investigations search of pharmacy tipped
off that it was selling masks at vastly
inflated prices I look at these
individuals these organizations these as
the worst of the worst they are looking
at making a quick buck off the backs of
our of our medical heroes on Long Island
this week officials searched a jewelry
store they say was selling n95 masks for
five times what they should cost
typically when agents make arrests they
seize the evidence and hold it for trial
but the FBI says in these cases agents
try to get the medical supplies
distributed to places where they're
urging needed we're also working with
FEMA to make sure that if we seize it
pursuant to an investigation we can work
with FEMA to get it into the hands of
medical professionals or the people who
need it in Texas the Attorney General
sued a Houston auction house for price
gouging even though bidder set the price
not the auctioneer when FEMA heard about
all the boxes of medical supplies
federal officials showed up ready to buy
but so did Harris County Texas and
because it was armed with a court order
and a truck the county won and hauled
material away Pete Williams NBC News
Washington
up next comforting words from the heart
the old fashioned way we want an end
with what has been another trying week
with the power of a handwritten note
making a comeback here's Harry Smith's
condolences who would like to express
our condolences but how we make do with
zoom or FaceTime but both leaves
something to be desired so we send cards
and write notes the sympathy card
section and many a store is all but
barren and the demand is overwhelming
supply this old fashioned thing once a
standard gesture of sorrow is filling
our need to bridge emotional distance so
to our thank you notes frontline workers
from the supermarket to the ICU are
receiving messages of appreciation many
from strangers sending these expressions
of gratitude or heartache it takes a bit
of extra time but it makes it all more
real and it's something we can hold on
to
Harry Smith NBC News New York
and that is nightly news remember our
latest episode of Nightly News kids
edition is online I'm Lester Holt please
take care of yourself and each other
hey NBC News viewers thanks for checking
out our YouTube channel subscribe by
clicking on that button down here and
click on any of the videos over here to
watch the latest interviews show
highlights and digital exclusives thanks
for watching